#summary Discussion summary of Feb25
#labels Phase-Requirements,Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation

= Details =

Elaboration:
Checked System Sequence Diagram.
Checked Deployment Diagram.
Checked Detailed Schedule.
UseCase already done.
Domain Model Diagram.
Class Diagram


Next Week:
Dan: ModerateProject,AdminChangePrivilege,Domain Model
Alex: Put Elaboration 
Jin: put User info to databsase, database diagram
Paul: Upload, download.



=2/11/08=

Discuss Inception Deliverable Elaboration Features to Implement by next week
Details

Inception Deliverable Everybody agree it is done.

Elaboration Jin: update schedule

Dan: Model domain diagram

Paul: System Sequence diagram

Alex: Deployment diagram

Features to Implement by next week

    * login/logout - Alex & Paul
    * some of search feature + rate, create some data for developing test- Jin
    * Dan learn php, mysql, do ModerateBan?? 



=2/4/09 MeetingResult=

Review everyone's work assigned, Project Inception: vision statement, UseCases, Glossary, Project Schedule, Project Budget.

New Assignment:

Paul: Design basic UI

Alex: Think about use cases. Learn more php, mysql, see WebSys? link.

Dan: Revise vision statement. Learn more php, mysql, see WebSys? link.

Jin: Design database, upload schedule

WebSys? Link: http://cgi2.cs.rpi.edu/~hollingd/websys/websys.php




=2/4/09=

This is a list of work expected to finish by Wed Fed 04

Jin: Finish the project schedule.

Paul: Develop project budget.

Alex: Design use cases

Dan: Vision Statement

All: Install and configure Apache, Mysql, php. Get to know Google code usage.