#summary Inception: glossary defining all vocabulary pertaining to this project.

=Glossary=

==Admin==

The highest level of user. Adds and removes moderators. Can edit database.

==Class==

A project detail, given by the user, defining the RPI course during which the project was created.  Used as a search parameter.

==Comment==

User generated feedback referencing specific projects.

==Date==

A timestamp given to all projects and comments describing when each project and comment was first added to the server.

==Description==

A summary, given by the user, detailing and marketing the project.  Used as a search parameter.

==Download==

The act of a user looking at or copying a project to their computer.

==Flag==

A switch marked by the user to signal offensive projects and comments to the moderators.

==Login==

The act of entering into the program with an RCSID and password. Allows the ability to upload.

==Major==

A project detail, given by the user, defining what field of study the project related to.  Used as a search parameter.

==Moderator==

The middle level priveledge.  Regulates projects and comments.

==Projects==

All files written and created by RPI students, hosted on RPH.

==Rating==

A number score between 0 and 5 grading specific projects representing an average of the community's scoring choices.

==RCS ID==

This is an identification given to all members of the RPI community.

==RPH==

RPI Project Hosting - project name

==RPI User==

A person logged in with a RCS ID and password, with uploading priveleges.

==Size==

A number representing the amount of space the project takes up.  Used as a search parameter.

==Title==

A name, given by the user, for each project.  Used as a search parameter.

==Upload==

The act of an RPI user adding a project to the server.

==User==

Any person directly acting with the program.