#summary Aces: summary of meetings and assignments of tasks

=4/1/09=
Features:

  * Jin and Paul: remove project -- not done
  * All: database query with mysql_reql_escape -- not done
  * All: form entries sanitized with htmlspecialchars() -- not done
  * All: catch errors and display error messages -- not done
  * be able to update remotely -- not done
  * All: automated unit tests use www.PHPUNIT.de (make test for your own files) -- not done
  * All: comment code -- not done
  * All: class diagram, sequence diagrams -- not done
  * ==Test Case Specification -- not done==
  * Jin: flag_comment, rate, remove_comment, remove_flag, comment
  * Alex: search, login, logout
  * Dan: upload, download
  * Paul: remove project, change priviledge, security, about page, terms of service


  * Dan: terms of service page -- done
  * Paul: Download -- done
  * Jin: change priviledge -- done
  * minimum 1 admin -- done
  * Alex: about page -- done
  * Dan: max 500 in description -- done
  * Dan: max 50 for title -- done
  * Paul: login  -- done
  * Jin: rate 1-5 -- done
  * Apache2 and MYSQL5.0 database -- done
  * use same PHP file for every part of interface -- done
  * max upload size -- done
  * normalize database -- done
  * upload -- done
  * logout -- done
  * search -- done
  * comment -- done
  * moderate ban user -- done
  * moderate unban user -- done
  * flag comment -- done
  * remove flag -- done
  * remove comment -- done
  * rate -- done
  * one rate per user per project -- done
  * use PHP sessions -- done
  * use CAS for login -- done




Interface:
worry later

project construction:
1.Comment codes



=2/25/09=

Elaboration:
Checked System Sequence Diagram.
Checked Deployment Diagram.
Checked Detailed Schedule.
UseCase already done.
Domain Model Diagram.
Class Diagram


Next Week:
Dan: ModerateProject,AdminChangePrivilege,Domain Model
Alex: Put Elaboration 
Jin: put User info to databsase, database diagram
Paul: Upload, download.



=2/18/09=

1.make classes:

    classes: 

    * all_user:

          variables: RCSID functions: mainPage, download, comment, rate, flag, login, logout, search. 

    Base on priority make classes: 

    * Moderator:

          functions: banUser, unBanUser, removeCommand,removeProject 

    * Admin:

          functions: change privilege level 

    * non-rpi-user:

          download,search,mainPage 

    * Project:

          variables: Title, Description, Size, Date, Project location (link, files), Downloads, Class, uploader, major, school functions: find_comment,cal_rate 

2. Elaboration:

    Ask Prof. for opinion about Depolyment diagram, domain model diagram 

3. Implementation:

    Jin: Search function: date rating is finished. 

    Database: add author for project, create database for moderate user and test data. 

    project's detail page UserComment?,FlagComment?,RemoveComment?. classes. 

    Alex: sort,ModeratorBan?,ModeratorUnBan? 

    Paul: UserUp?,UserDown? 

    Dan: ModerateProject?,AdminChangePrivilege?,finish upload. 

4.Best practice

    check out unit test to see which one is best, discuss tmr. (upload to myrpi.org) Bug Tracking System-- google one, discuss tmr. 



=2/11/08=

Discuss Inception Deliverable Elaboration Features to Implement by next week
Details

Inception Deliverable Everybody agree it is done.

Elaboration Jin: update schedule

Dan: Model domain diagram

Paul: System Sequence diagram

Alex: Deployment diagram

Features to Implement by next week

    * login/logout - Alex & Paul
    * some of search feature + rate, create some data for developing test- Jin
    * Dan learn php, mysql, do ModerateBan??

====BestPractice====
Best Practice needed!!
Introduction

In the syllabus, I just found we need 2 more items for the best practice: we have:

    project management sites, (google code) 

    code repository, (google code) 

    Documented coding standard. 

We need 2 more from following

    Build Tools , 

    Unit Test Tools , 

    Bug Tracking System , 

    Design Patterns , 



=2/4/09 MeetingResult=

Review everyone's work assigned, Project Inception: vision statement, UseCases, Glossary, Project Schedule, Project Budget.

New Assignment:

Paul: Design basic UI

Alex: Think about use cases. Learn more php, mysql, see WebSys? link.

Dan: Revise vision statement. Learn more php, mysql, see WebSys? link.

Jin: Design database, upload schedule

WebSys? Link: http://cgi2.cs.rpi.edu/~hollingd/websys/websys.php


====Database====
User: RCSID, Password, Priviledge

Project: Title, Description, Size, Date, Project location (link, files), Downloads, Class, uploader, major, school.

Comment: User, Comment, Project, Date, Flag

Rating: User, Rate, Project



=2/1/09=

This is a list of work expected to finish by Wed Fed 04

Jin: Finish the project schedule.

Paul: Develop project budget.

Alex: Design use cases

Dan: Vision Statement

All: Install and configure Apache, Mysql, php. Get to know Google code usage.