#summary of meetings and assignments of tasks

=2/25/08=

Elaboration:
Checked System Sequence Diagram.
Checked Deployment Diagram.
Checked Detailed Schedule.
UseCase already done.
Domain Model Diagram.
Class Diagram


Next Week:
Dan: ModerateProject,AdminChangePrivilege,Domain Model
Alex: Put Elaboration 
Jin: put User info to databsase, database diagram
Paul: Upload, download.



=2/18/08=

1.make classes:

    classes: 

    * all_user:

          variables: RCSID functions: mainPage, download, comment, rate, flag, login, logout, search. 

    Base on priority make classes: 

    * Moderator:

          functions: banUser, unBanUser, removeCommand,removeProject 

    * Admin:

          functions: change privilege level 

    * non-rpi-user:

          download,search,mainPage 

    * Project:

          variables: Title, Description, Size, Date, Project location (link, files), Downloads, Class, uploader, major, school functions: find_comment,cal_rate 

2. Elaboration:

    Ask Prof. for opinion about Depolyment diagram, domain model diagram 

3. Implementation:

    Jin: Search function: date rating is finished. 

    Database: add author for project, create database for moderate user and test data. 

    project's detail page UserComment?,FlagComment?,RemoveComment?. classes. 

    Alex: sort,ModeratorBan?,ModeratorUnBan? 

    Paul: UserUp?,UserDown? 

    Dan: ModerateProject?,AdminChangePrivilege?,finish upload. 

4.Best practice

    check out unit test to see which one is best, discuss tmr. (upload to myrpi.org) Bug Tracking System-- google one, discuss tmr. 



=2/11/08=

Discuss Inception Deliverable Elaboration Features to Implement by next week
Details

Inception Deliverable Everybody agree it is done.

Elaboration Jin: update schedule

Dan: Model domain diagram

Paul: System Sequence diagram

Alex: Deployment diagram

Features to Implement by next week

    * login/logout - Alex & Paul
    * some of search feature + rate, create some data for developing test- Jin
    * Dan learn php, mysql, do ModerateBan?? 



=2/4/09 MeetingResult=

Review everyone's work assigned, Project Inception: vision statement, UseCases, Glossary, Project Schedule, Project Budget.

New Assignment:

Paul: Design basic UI

Alex: Think about use cases. Learn more php, mysql, see WebSys? link.

Dan: Revise vision statement. Learn more php, mysql, see WebSys? link.

Jin: Design database, upload schedule

WebSys? Link: http://cgi2.cs.rpi.edu/~hollingd/websys/websys.php




=2/4/09=

This is a list of work expected to finish by Wed Fed 04

Jin: Finish the project schedule.

Paul: Develop project budget.

Alex: Design use cases

Dan: Vision Statement

All: Install and configure Apache, Mysql, php. Get to know Google code usage.