#summary A brief explanation of project.

=Vision Statement=

Our vision this semester is to create a server for hosting RPI projects in their final state.  Anyone in the world will be able to experience and enjoy innovative and interesting projects created at RPI.  This will give students and faculty the ability to upload their projects and get the appreciation and publicity that they deserve for their hard work.  This way projects will no longer be lost in the commotion that occurs at the end of a semester.  Furthermore, these projects, made by RPI students, will be advertised to, and therefore used by, RPI students creating a stronger, self-propelling community.

There are four major features we must implement in RPH to make this project successful.  The first functional piece will be a user login using students' and faculties' RCSIDs and passwords.  Projects can only be uploaded by RPI students, however they can be seen and used by anyone.  The second feature will be the ability to upload and download projects.  Uploaded projects must pass a few standardized guidelines that the moderators will enforce.  Thirdly, our database of projects will allow users to search for projects using many different search parameters in a helpful and intuitive interface. These search parameters will include, but is not limited to, title, date uploaded, number of downloads, user id, and description.  The final feature of RPH will be ratings and comments given to projects by the RPH community.  After downloading a project the user will be free to comment on the project giving feedback, and they will be able to rate the project on a 1-5 scale.  If any user's comment is flagged by another user it will be noted by a moderator to a professional and constructive atmosphere.

Because no project like this exists for the RPI community currently, there is no direct competition, however, market share will be taken from similar, yet less sophisticated, servers for hosting projects such as the Game Development server for hosting games created by RPI students.  

Possible business strategies for RPH will be to provide banner advertisements for companies marketing to a college community.  Also, RPH will be easily portable and it can be later refurbished to attract other universities and communities.  All that is required is the necessary server size to handle a large, and continuously increasing, database of projects.

Risks foreseen during and after the development of RPH include obtaining and maintaining a large enough server, and taking appropriate actions to protecting the faculties' and owners' rights to the projects.